---
layout: blog
title: Information about PhD Econometrics this Fall at Iowa State
author: Gray Calhoun
---

(This is the text of an email I sent to incoming PhD students for Iowa
State. Maybe it's useful for other people too.)

Hi everyone,

My name's Gray Calhoun and I'm going to be teaching your Econometrics
class at Iowa State this fall (Econ 671). There is a preliminary
version of the syllabus on the course homepage,
<http://gray.clhn.org/671>, but it may be changed slightly before the
semester starts. This email has a little more information about our
expectations and some advice on preparing for the class.

First, this class is going to introduce you to statistical
programming, and we're going to use the language R for all of the
assignments. If you have not programmed in R before, you may want to
start to familiarize yourself with it over the summer. Fortunately,
it's free. You can download R from <http://cran.r-project.org> (or
using your OS's package manager). You should also install RStudio,
which can be downloaded for free from <http://www.rstudio.com>, and
use it as the editor/IDE for R. (It is much better than using R
directly, and we'll use RStudio in class.)

Then, to actually become familiar with R, you may want to work through
a short tutorial. Two that are recommended are:

* Try R, <http://tryr.codeschool.com> (it works in your web browser)
* Swirl, <http://swirlstats.com> (through the R console).

There is also documentation for RStudio on its homepage.

Second, if you haven't taken a statistics or econometrics class
before, or if you last took one a few years ago, you'll benefit from
reviewing some basic undergraduate textbooks.  I recommend the
following:

* Freedman, Pisani, and Purves's "Statistics." It's currently on the
  4th edition, but you can buy an older edition. (Or get a copy from
  the library, you're probably not going to need it as a reference.)
  This is a very, very basic stats 101 level treatment. E.g. it
  doesn't really get more advanced than the t-test and you can
  probably read it in a week. But it will give you a good
  introduction to probability and statistics if you've never seen them
  before.

* Tufte's "Data Analysis for Politics and Policy." This is a very
  simple introduction to linear regression. It doesn't get into the
  math very much, but it is captures the intuition pretty well. It's
  available for $2 from Tufte's website,
  <http://www.edwardtufte.com/tufte/ebooks>. Again, this is the sort
  of book you can read in about a week and it will give you a decent
  introduction to the second half of our class.

Reading through both of those books will give you an overview of what
we're going to do in the class and shouldn't take that long. So please
try to do it if you haven't seen this material before. Do keep in mind
that these books are not representative of the mathematical level of
the course.

If you've already seen this material, and have free time this summer
that you'd like to spend preparing for the econometrics sequence,
please feel free to email me and I will be happy to provide more
suggestions. Working through the recommended text, Freedman's
"Statistical Models, Theory and Practice," and doing the book's
exercises in R would be very good preparation, but I can give other
recommendations too. :)

In any case, I'm very happy you'll be attending Iowa State and I look
forward to meeting you in August. Enjoy the summer!
